---
test: posttest
title: The 17,576 Names of God
tags: [School, Study]
description: The 17,576 Names of God
author: Jaemin Kim
--- 

I really enjoyed thinking about this problem today from the book C for Dummies page 98.

"In the Short short story 'The Nine Billion Names of God', author Arthur C. Clarke writes about a group of monks who are determined to figure out the names of God. They have devised a phonetic alphabet and have written down various combinations of sounds, but they can work only so fast. So, they hire a computer company to install a system that can quickly create 9 billion permutations of the sounds, one of which is likely to be the Name of God. The idea is that, after God's name is known, the world will end.

It's a charming story, all the more so because desktop computers can now also calculate the name of God, as long as you properly code them with the monk's alphabet, write the program, and then sit and wait for the output to compile.

The following program uses three nested loops to generate every possible 3-letter combination using the common English alphabet. This example isn't sufficient to produce the Name of God, so the world doesn't end when you run the program."

Here is the program that does 17,576 of the 9 billion:

#include <stdio.h>

int main(){
    char a,b,c;
    /* Test to see total number of combinations
    int i = 1; 
    */
    for(a='A';a<='Z';++a){
        for(b='A';b<='Z';++b){
            for(c='A';c<='Z';++c){
                printf("%c%c%c\t",a,b,c);
                /* This will print the current number of the combination
                printf("%d",i);
                ++i;
                */
            }
        }
    }
    return(0);
}
What if we need to find all 9 billion?

? - ? = 9,000,000,000

A - Z = 26
AA - ZZ = 676
AAA - ZZZ = 17,576

26*26*26 = 17,576
or 
26^3 = 17,576

or

x = log26(17,576)
x = 3

so

x = log26(9,000,000,000)
x = around 7 
AAAAAAA - ZZZZZZZ = 9,000,000,000 (it's way closer to 8,000,000,000 but let's just say 9,000,000,000)

Here is the program that does 9 billion:

#include <stdio.h>

int main(){
    char a,b,c,d,e,f,g;
    /* Test to see total number of combinations
    int i = 1; 
    */
    for(a='A';a<='Z';++a){
        for(b='A';b<='Z';++b){
            for(c='A';c<='Z';++c){
                for(d='A';d<='Z';++d){
                    for(e='A';e<='Z';++e){
                        for(f='A';f<='Z';++f){
                            for(g='A';g<='Z';++g){
                                printf("%c%c%c%c%c%c%c\t",a,b,c,d,e,f,g);
                                /* This will print the current number of the combination
                                printf("%d",i);
                                ++i;
                                */
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
    return(0);
}
The program that measure the time it takes to find 17,576 is here:

AAA_ZZZ_time_calculation.c
The program that measure the time it takes to find 9 billion is here:

AAAAAAA_ZZZZZZZ_time_calculation.c
It is possible to calculate all 7-8 letter combinations with a Desktop/Laptop computer.

But I am running the program right now and it is going to take a while.

So I will rerun this program once I finish building the HPCC(High Performance Computing Cluster):Beowulf Cluster with 10x Optiplex 980 systems. With more cores it should be able to calculate these with parallel computing and so much faster.

Then I will run this program on a single system to see how long it takes with just one.

I am looking forward to building the HPCC to help make calculations such as these faster. Ideally I want to build a system that can make these types of calculations in hundredth of a second. I know that I need a system that can handle these kinds of workloads, if I want to do any meaningful type of work.

The world ending isn't a big deal compared to the universe, so hopefully we will be on Mars by the time this happens.

Update(10/6/2018):
BTW this algorithm is like N(something bad) or something.

[Back Home](https://jaemnkm.github.io/jekyll-now/)