---
test: posttest
title: Thought on Today
tags: [random]
description: Thoughts on Today
author: Jaemin Kim
---

It's definitly been a journey.

It's not easy to explain but one thing is for sure, how every day has added to the story of how I have gotten here.

Who I am and why I am like this.

I'm sure everyone has had a journey.

For some it was easier than others but it's all relative.

I do think about the ones who didn't make it and I'm grateful that I'm still here.

If anything that is more important than thinking about who is doing what and etc etc.

As for the journey to becoming a programmer/coder/developer it was really difficult.

But in someways it wasen't anymore difficult than anything I had to learn in my life.

It was just that it happened in a period of time where there were alot of difficulties going on in my life.

The funny part is that in someways it's easier now than ever.

Because there always was difficulties.

Things have always been not easy.

But the skill of programming has really opened a side of knowledge that is really bringing things to a full circle.

I am really grateful to have the opportunty to learn and really just be able to try my best.

I think I will stick with programming, but it is not a end all skill.

Bringing programming into the fold of skillsets just makes you a more rounded person.

But only if you have other skills besides programming.

To be honest programming is nothing but time and effort.

Just like anything in this world.



[Back Home](https://jaemnkm.github.io/jekyll-now/)
